♪ Thank you for bein' a friend ♪
♪ Traveled down the road and back again ♪
♪ Your heart is true ♪
♪ You're a pal and a confidante ♪
♪ And if you threw a party ♪
♪ Invited everyone you knew ♪
♪ You would see the biggest gift
Would be from me ♪
♪ And the card attached would say ♪
♪ "Thank you for bein' a friend" ♪
(mellow music playing)
Oh...
Why is it they always schedule
the charity softball game
on the hottest day of the year?
I'm all hot and sweaty, I'm short
of breath, and I'm physically exhausted.
You'd think I had a good time.
You didn't have fun?
I only enjoyed stealing second base.
When have you not enjoyed
sliding under a man in uniform?
It's hotter in here than it is outside.
Oh, no!
Of all days for the air conditioner
to break.
We'd better call the repairman.
-His number's in the kitchen.
-So is the ice cream.
We'll have some while we're waiting.
What are you doing?
Giving the leftover meat loaf a thrill.
What do you think?
It's hot as hell in here.
-Close it before the food spoils.
-Ok.
I meant
the refrigerator.
-I'm going to call the repairman.
-I already did.
He said he'd be here
three hours ago.
Let's break out ice cream. What's this?
I froze my underwear to stay cool.
I'd lend you a pair, but on you,
I'm afraid they'd melt too fast.
(gasps) I don't believe it!
This is incredible news!
I've been nominated for St. Olaf
woman of the year.
That's nice.
Did the new TV Guide come yet?
Blanche, you don't understand.
In St. Olaf, this is
the highest honor there is.
I never dreamed that someone
as unqualified as I am
would ever be nominated
for anything so important.
I guess Dan Quayle really
opened the floodgates.
Last year, Gretchen Lilyhammer won
for saving all the books
in the burning library.
How did she do that?
She took the three books
and ran like the dickens.
Your library only has three books?
What happens when a person's
read them all?
I guess we'll cross that bridge
when we get to it.
(knock on door)
I'm going to write down my achievements.
It doesn't matter whether I win.
Just being nominated is enough.
-That's a good attitude.
-It's also a crock of bull.
I want that sucker bad!
This is Fred.
He's come to fix the air conditioner.
This heat's driving me crazy!
The old lady next door is running through
a sprinkler in her underwear.
There's no old lady... Ma!
This is unbearable.
It must be 110 in here.
Here's a simple way to beat the heat.
Imagine yourself in a cool place.
Like a snowy mountaintop in Colorado.
With a ski instructor named Fritz.
And a bearskin rug, a bottle of brandy,
and a crackling fire.
It must be 120 in here!
Morning, Rose.
Dorothy, sometimes you can be so cruel.
-Honey, what's the matter?
-Everything.
I just found out
I'm the most boring person alive.
Did something happen to Regis Philbin?
No.
I was listing my accomplishments.
It wasn't till I saw them
in black and white
that I realized my top accomplishments
aren't worth a damn.
You're forgetting how much
you give to people.
How about that work
at the counseling center?
Honey, you must help
hundreds of people every year.
-I just talk to them. Big deal.
-It is a big deal.
A kind, loving word
helps a person in despair.
That is your gift.
I wouldn't take it lightly.
I haven't added anything to the world.
Look, Rose, God doesn't make mistakes.
We were all put on this planet
for a purpose.
Blanche, you're here
to work in a museum...
so that art can be
appreciated by humanity.
Dorothy, you're here as a substitute
teacher to educate our youth.
Rose, you're here because
the rhythm method
was very popular in the twenties.
Okay?
I'm going to the movies. Goodbye.
-I'm going to bed.
-Come on, you just got up.
With my life, I won't miss anything.
-Oh.
-I hate seeing her so upset.
She can't judge herself.
She can't see her accomplishments
like we can.
Maybe all this resume needs
is a little punching up.
Exaggerate the truth? Create colorful
stories just to impress people?
-You can't do that.
-I know.
That's my specialty.
"Found a baby robin that fell out
of its tree and returned it to its nest."
Make that a baby eagle.
-Yeah.
-Eagle.
-And it happened during a big rainstorm.
-Rainstorm.
Which caused a mighty flood
which covered all the land.
Oh, come on.
Blanche, nobody in his right mind
is going to believe this story.
-This is going to St. Olaf.
-"Which caused a mighty flood..."
(serene music playing)
-Honey, are you feeling better?
-A little.
I tried this technique I read
about to cheer myself up.
You stand in front of a mirror
and you tell yourself, "I love you".
And then you give yourself
a great big hug.
Yeah, my son Phil
used to do that all the time.
Got to a point he couldn't pass a mirror
without saying, "I love you".
I can't tell you how many times he got
punched out in the men's room.
(doorbell rings)
We're the St. Olaf woman of the year
blue ribbon panel. Rose Nylund?
I'm Rose Nylund.
-Aren't you fellas a little overdressed?
-I told you we didn't have to wear a tie.
Allow us to introduce ourselves.
I'm Len, this is Sven, and this is Ben.
We are the topplekoffer triplets.
How odd. You don't look anything alike.
Back in St. Olaf,
nobody could tell us apart.
You can imagine all the fun we had
playing tricks on our teachers.
Which of you brothers
has custody of the brain?
So what brings you guys to Miami?
Wait a minute.
I'll bet this has something to do
with the St. Olaf woman of the year award.
-No wonder she's a finalist.
-Did I win?
Not yet.
A lot will depend on verifying the facts
in this here biography.
(Rose) Oh, this is so exciting.
Let me get us some refreshments
before we start.
Please make yourself comfortable.
Sorry it's so hot.
We're in the middle of a heat wave
with no air conditioning.
Not necessarily.
If Rose wins the award, you'll be flown
to St. Olaf to attend the ceremony.
This year I was planning
to watch it on TV.
You know, if all goes well
with this interview
you can start packing right away.
Oh, you know, I don't think
I'd bother Rose with an old interview.
You know, you'd just embarrass her.
She's so modest.
I'm sorry, but the rules state
we must conduct
face to face interviews
with all the candidates.
Here we are.
I made some nice hot cocoa.
Rose, tell us how you got up the courage
to save that eagle.
It was just a bird.
-What about saving that school bus?
-I just gave it directions.
-A bridge was washed out ahead.
-Really?
I can't take credit for those things.
Rose, please.
Gentlemen, you're embarrassing her.
The woman is a saint, and she's far too
modest to take credit for her good deeds.
Do we have a winner here?
Rose Nylund,
you are St. Olaf's woman of the year!
(all) Oof-dah!
(calm music playing)
Ladies and gentlemen,
the fasten your seat belt sign is now off.
If anyone can fix it,
please report to the flight attendant.
I don't get it.
Why did we get off that lovely jetliner
and switch to this rickety old thing?
Because big jets can't land
at St. Gustav.
I thought we were flying to St. Olaf.
St. Olaf doesn't have an airport.
The only way to get to St. Olaf
is to fly to St. Gustav
and take land transportation.
Even the birds do it that way.
I don't believe this!
We could be going to beaver falls.
Beaver falls? That's my stop.
(rings)
I can't believe we're
on our way to St. Olaf.
Oh, I'm so excited.
You girls will love it.
But everybody thinks his
hometown is pretty special.
I know I do.
I'll never forget when I went back
after many years.
Everything was the same.
Garbage in the street...
prostitutes in the doorways...
a couple of guys hanging from their heels
in the Town Square...
oh, I can't go on. Got a handkerchief?
Honey, why are you getting all teary?
Sicily sounds just awful.
That wasn't Sicily.
That was my first apartment in Brooklyn.
Well, the best part of this whole thing
is sharing the most important moment
of your life with your best friends.
We're happy you're getting
your little plaque.
Blanche, it's more than a plaque.
In St. Olaf, it's the highest honor.
We all think of it as a reminder
that no matter how bad the world is,
St. Olaf is still a place that's filled
with honest people leading honest lives.
Well... we're just really proud of you,
Rose.
I'm sure there's nobody who
deserves that award more than you do.
This is the captain speaking.
We are beginning our descent
to St. Gustav airport.
At least I think it's the airport.
Wow. In 20 minutes,
we'll be in St. Gustav.
Then we'll hop on a train
for zumbro falls,
and we'll grab the shuttle.
We should be in St. Olaf
in a couple of days.
(Sophia, Dorothy and Blanche) Days?
(serene music playing)
I will not forgive that airline
as long as I live!
I cannot believe the airline lost
all our luggage.
I'll have to go an entire weekend
without underwear.
And you usually slip into a pair
by Sunday afternoon.
Darn, I hate fog.
Why? You've spent most
of your life in one.
If it were clearer,
we could see Mount Losenbaden.
What's Mount Losenbaden?
It's like mount Rushmore,
except they sculpted four losers
of presidential elections in
the mountainside.
Let's see, there was Alf Landon,
Wendell Willkie,
and Adlai Stevenson and Adlai Stevenson.
-Why are there two Adlai Stevensons?
-Blanche, isn't it obvious?
He lost twice.
Oh, God. It's making sense.
Oh, girls, come on.
From the other side,
we'll see lake Losenbaden.
-What's that in the shape of?
-A lake.
-We'll stay.
-I'll go with you.
I'm a sucker for natural beauty...
and a gin and tonic.
Let's find the bar.
Blanche, I'm glad we're alone.
There's something we should do.
I like you as a friend,
but I think I'll pass.
-What?
-What did you mean?
I think we have to tell Rose what we did.
I agree. If they discover those lies
in her biography,
she'll be the laughing stock of St. Olaf.
We're about to go through
the zumbro falls tunnel.
Rose, honey, listen.
-We want to tell you--
-We could be in trouble.
People have vanished off
the face of the earth
-going through that tunnel.
-That's ridiculous.
Hold on, here we go.
(Blanche) Rose, listen.
It's about your biography.
Um, there's something in there that, uh...
well, what is the word I'm looking for?
-I don't know exactly how to say this...
-Where's ma?
Oh, my God, no.
The curse of the zumbro falls tunnel.
-Sophia?
-Ma?
(Sophia) What?
Ma, where are you? Are you all right?
(toilet flushes)
(Sophia) I am now.
(mellow music playing)
I can't believe this is the shuttle
to St. Olaf.
-How you doing, Ma?
-Fine.
Sophia, why won't you sit here with us?
After three days on
the road with you guys,
this jackass smells better.
Thank you.
Look at that beautiful sky.
That's one of the wonderful
things about being here.
It is beautiful.
It looks like you could touch those stars.
I can't tell you how many
people in St. Olaf
have fallen off their roofs trying.
Rose, are we anywhere near St. Olaf?
We're getting close.
Look. There's the old tree house.
As a kid, my best friend Ingrid and I
would go up there.
Gosh, I miss her.
I haven't talked to her in ages.
Why not give her a call?
-Oh, maybe I will.
-Sure.
Hey, Ingrid!
(Ingrid) Is that you, Rose?
Well, how are you?
-Fine, Ingrid! How are you?
-(Ingrid) Oh, fine!
Well, nice talking to you! Bye-bye, Rose!
Bye, Ingrid!
Oh, thank you, Blanche.
That was a great idea.
It's great bringing two idiots closer
together.
I think that's the motto
of the St. Olaf telephone company.
I'm getting nervous.
Just think, tomorrow I'll stand
in front of the entire town
and be crowned St. Olaf woman of the year.
Are you Rose Nylund?
Yes.
It's an honor to drive the woman
that beat Emma Immerhoffer
for woman of the year.
I beat Emma?
Yeah. We thought she'd be a shoo-in,
running the orphanage,
taking in the homeless...
Emma did all that?
Oh, she's a saint.
How did I beat her?
Uh, Rose, there's something
we have to tell you.
You see, what Blanche and I did
was, well...
What Dorothy is trying to say
is we love you so much,
and we wanted you to win so bad that...
-we fudged some things on your biography.
-Fudged?
Fudge makes it sound cute.
You lied.
We embellished, Rose.
Rose, you do good things.
You are the kindest,
most decent person we know.
You deserve to win.
But you lied.
I'm not doing this.
I can't go back to my
hometown and do something
that's against everything I stand for.
I'm telling them we're not coming.
Driver, stop at the first phone.
(calm music playing)
Good morning.
Isn't it great to be home?
I have an urge to kiss every piece
of furniture in the house.
You wouldn't if you had dates
like other people.
Oh, hi, Rose.
Oh, Rose, come on.
You're not still mad because we changed
your woman of the year application?
I just hate it when you're mad at us
and get like this.
-Okay. You're forgiven.
-That was easy.
I thought it all over,
and you were just trying to help me.
I can't stay mad at my best friends.
After all, we've eaten over
500 cheesecakes together.
Besides, you weren't raised in St. Olaf.
It's not your fault you're
chronic two-faced liars.
(man) Hello.
Oh! Dr. Harry Weston.
And I'm not dressed, thank God.
-Hi, neighbors. Welcome home.
-Hi, Dreyfuss.
Hi, Harry. What brings you here?
You called me and told me
you were here.
-Remember you asked me to save your mail?
-Thank you, harry.
You're about the sweetest thing
in my zip code.
I don't know why I haven't had you...
to dinner.
Well, that would be real nice.
I've also been meaning
to talk about an examination.
Blanche, I'm a pediatrician.
Harry, I'm not sick.
Well, I really have to go,
and so does Dreyfuss.
That's why we're taking a walk.
That's not what I mean.
I'll be walking, Dreyfuss will be going.
-See you all. Come on, Dreyfuss.
-Bye, Dreyfuss.
I know the prescription for me,
one of him every four hours.
Is this for me?
-It's from St. Olaf.
-Blanche.
What was all that stuff with Harry?
The man hasn't dated since his wife died.
You can't spend your whole life
in mourning,
especially when you're
an eligible bachelor.
In Sicily there's a simple rule,
if your husband dies, you wait 20 years
or until you grow a mustache.
Blanche, we all had an agreement,
no one dates Harry
until an appropriate
amount of time has passed.
I know, 18 months.
I have it marked
on my calendar with a red circle.
As of today, that man is in play.
I'm just amazed
I was able to wait so long.
He's so charming, sophisticated,
rich, and handsome.
He fairly screams Blanche.
At least he will
before I'm through with him.
Girls, look.
It's the St. Olaf woman
of the year trophy.
It says I won after all because I embody
the values of truth and honesty
which the award represents.
What happened to Emma Immerhoffer?
A skeleton in her closet disqualified her.
-What was it?
-Mr. Immerhoffer.
This thing isn't solid gold, is it?
Oh, no. You peel off the foil,
and it's pure chocolate.
That's the loveliest trophy
I've ever seen. I'll get a knife.
-We can't tell you how proud we are.
-Sure, we can.
Congratulations, Rose Nylund.
You are St. Olaf's woman of the year.
(Sophia, Dorothy and Blanche)
Oof-dah!
(theme music playing)